# PyFCS-VITA

## Description
This repository contains the execution framework for the Tooth Color Validation software, including everything needed to install and use it.

All the code in this project is based on the core of PyFCS, developed by the same author and available at: [PyFCS]([PyFCS](https://github.com/RafaelConejo/PyFCS)), where the use of the graphical interface is also documented.

The Tooth Color Validation is a Python-based application designed for dentists and dental professionals to validate their accuracy in predicting the color of a tooth sample. Users are shown a random sample from the 16 shades in the VITA Classical shade guide and must determine the correct matching shade based on the reference chart. After making a decision, users can submit their predicted shade along with their confidence level (0-1).

To validate the chromatic accuracy of the proposed approach, a controlled visual assessment study was conducted with twelve dental professionals specializing in shade matching. A dedicated software tool was developed using Python's Tkinter library to provide a standardized evaluation interface, ensuring consistency and traceability in expert data. This repository also includes a results evaluation notebook to analyze and compare expert predictions against the model's output.

### Features
- Randomized selection of tooth samples from the VITA Classical shade guide.
- Input interface for selecting the predicted shade and confidence level.

### Installation

1. Download the repository as a .zip file from the "Clone or Download" option or from the Releases section.
2. Unzip the file into a local folder.
3. In the main directory, install the external libraries using the following command:

```
pip install -r Datasets\requirements.txt
```
4. Now to run **Tooth Color Validation**:
```
python VITA_validation_software.py
```


### Results and Evaluation
The **Results** directory contains the data generated by expert users when using the software. These results are later used in the **Results_evaluation** directory, where Jupyter Notebooks perform a comparison between the expert predictions and the results generated by PyFCS.


## PyFCS GUI
For detailed information on the installation and use of the graphical interface, please refer to the PyFCS repository available at: [PyFCS](https://github.com/RafaelConejo/PyFCS).


### 📬 Contact & Support
For support or questions, feel free to contact: rafaconejo@ugr.es
